token-upgrade: Add CLI and docs (#3593)
solana-labs/solana-program-library: docs/src/token-upgrade.md

---
title: Token Upgrade Program
---

The Token Upgrade Program provides a stateless protocol for permanently converting
tokens from one mint to another.

The program provides a simple mechanism for burning the original tokens and receiving
an equal number of new tokens from an escrow account controlled by the program.

## Background

Token-2022 contains many new features for mint owners to customize the behavior
of their tokens. You can find full information about Token-2022 and its extensions
in the [documentation](token-2022.md).

Mint owners may want to take advantage of new functionality for their users, but
there is no way to automatically convert tokens from Token to Token-2022.

> The Token Upgrade Program defines an escrow authority, a program-derived address,
> from two addresses, the original and new mints. Any new token account owned by or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Token Upgrade Program defines an escrow authority, a program-derived address
from two addresses, the original and new mints. Any new token account owned by or
```

> delegated to this escrow authority may be used in the protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
delegated to this escrow authority may be used as the escrow account.
```

> A holder of original tokens provides their original token account, a new token account,
> and a new token account owned by or delegated to the escrow authority. If the
> escrow authority's account has enough tokens, the protocol will burn the original

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A holder of original tokens provides their original token account, a new token account,
and the escrow account. If the
escrow account has enough tokens, the protocol will burn the original
```

tokens and transfer the same amount of new tokens to the user's new account.

The amount of tokens transferred is completely independent of decimals, so if
the mints have different decimals, then users may be surprised to see a different

> amount.

Reviewer 2: this should be updated

Author: Thanks for spotting this

The program is completely stateless and has a simple implementation, so mint owners
may customize it if they need additional functionality. For example, if they want
the transfer to be decimal-aware, they can scale the transferred number up or down

> as needed.

Reviewer: This reference to decimals also needs to be updated, right?
